docs/variables_and_types.md, before:

# Variables and Types

Throughout the engine, there are many places where variables are defined in asset files and then used from Rust code, for example as parameters for [actors](actor_assets.md#parameters-declaring-parameters) and [scenes](scene_assets.md#parameters). All variables are made up of an identifier and a type, which both have different representations in different contexts.

Variables are declared using the following syntax:

```scheme
'(<name> <type> <description>)
```

`<name>` must be a symbol giving the identifier of the variable. `<type>` must be either one of the symbols for a primitive type, or a list containing nested lists or primitive type symbols. `<description>` must be a string literal and is optional. When it is given, it is usually added as a documentation attribute to the variable in the generated Rust code.

## Identifiers

Variable identifiers are initially defined in an asset file, like an actor or scene asset, and therefore start as a Scheme symbol. When a variable is given a counterpart in Rust code, the casing of the identifier is changed to match the variable's function in the code. It is important to note that the names of asset files are themselves identifiers which follow this same pattern.

An identifier can assume the following casings:

| Name             | Example     | Usage in Rust                                             |
| ---------------- | ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| Kebab-case       | `color-rgb` | In string literals, when the identifier is not normalized |
| Lower snake-case | `color_rgb` | Parameters, local variables.                              |
| Upper snake-case | `COLOR_RGB` | Global `const` and `static` items                         |
| Lower camel-case | `colorRgb`  | N/A                                                       |
| Upper camel-case | `ColorRgb`  | Type names and traits                                     |

Since identifiers start in Scheme, which has very liberal rules for its symbols, a single identifier can use a mix of different casings. This is not recommended however, since it can lead to surprises when the identifier is normalized in the generated Rust code.

## Types

A variable also has a type to specify what kind of data the variable holds and which values are allowed to be used for this variable in other assets. To convert between the asset files' Scheme format and Rust syntax, a fixed set of types with representation in both Scheme and Rust is used. These types are identified by a symbol or list in Scheme and map to a matching type in Rust.

### Primitive types

The following primitive types are supported:

| Type                         | Scheme Symbol | Rust type |
| ---------------------------- | ------------- | --------- |
| 8-bit unsigned integer       | `u8`          | `u8`      |
| 16-bit unsigned integer      | `u16`         | `u16`     |
| 32-bit unsigned integer      | `u32`         | `u32`     |
| 64-bit unsigned integer      | `u64`         | `u64`     |
| 8-bit signed integer         | `i8`          | `i8`      |
| 16-bit signed integer        | `i16`         | `i16`     |
| 32-bit signed integer        | `i32`         | `i32`     |
| 64-bit signed integer        | `i64`         | `i64`     |
| 32-bit floating point number | `f32`         | `f32`     |
| 64-bit floating point number | `f64`         | `f64`     |
| Boolean value                | `bool`        | `bool`    |
| String                       | `string`      | `&str`    |

In Scheme, the allowed values for each of these types is the same as it would be in Rust, even though Scheme (or Guile specifically) does not enforce this limit. Boolean values must be written as `#t`/`#true` or `#f`/`#false`, other truthy values are not allowed in place of `#t`.

### Aggregate types

The following aggregate types are supported:

| Type   | Scheme                | Rust type               |
| ------ | --------------------- | ----------------------- |
| Tuple  | `(#type1 #type2 ...)` | `(#type1, #type2, ...)` |
| Vector | `(vec #type)`         | `&[#type]`              |

A tuple is a fixed-length sequence of up to eight elements of arbitrary types. When supplying a value to a variable with tuple type in Scheme, simply list the values for each element in order.

A vector is a list of variable length of entries of a single type. Values to vector type variables in scheme are simply lists which contain only elements of the vectors item type.

Vectors and tuples can be arbitrarily nested.

Commit message:

Removed actors and scenes, added documentation for nodes

docs/variables_and_types.md, after:

# Variables and Types

Throughout the engine, there are many places where variables are defined in asset files and then used from Rust code, for example as parameters and properties for [nodes](node_assets.md). All variables are made up of an identifier and a type, which both have different representations in different contexts.

Variables are declared using the following syntax:

```scheme
'(<name> <type> <description>)
```

`<name>` must be a symbol giving the identifier of the variable. `<type>` must be either one of the symbols for a primitive type, or a list containing nested lists or primitive type symbols. `<description>` must be a string literal and is optional. When it is given, it is usually added as a documentation attribute to the variable in the generated Rust code.

## Identifiers

Variable identifiers are initially defined in an asset file, like a node asset, and therefore start as a Scheme symbol. When a variable is given a counterpart in Rust code, the casing of the identifier is changed to match the variable's function in the code. It is important to note that the names of asset files are themselves identifiers which follow this same pattern.

An identifier can assume the following casings:

| Name             | Example     | Usage in Rust                                             |
| ---------------- | ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| Kebab-case       | `color-rgb` | In string literals, when the identifier is not normalized |
| Lower snake-case | `color_rgb` | Parameters, local variables.                              |
| Upper snake-case | `COLOR_RGB` | Global `const` and `static` items                         |
| Lower camel-case | `colorRgb`  | N/A                                                       |
| Upper camel-case | `ColorRgb`  | Type names and traits                                     |

Since identifiers start in Scheme, which has very liberal rules for its symbols, a single identifier can use a mix of different casings. This is not recommended however, since it can lead to surprises when the identifier is normalized in the generated Rust code.

## Type Conversion

A variable also has a type to specify what kind of data the variable holds and which values are allowed to be used for this variable in other assets. To convert between the asset files' Scheme format and Rust syntax, a fixed set of types with representation in both Scheme and Rust is used. These types are identified by a symbol or list in Scheme and map to a matching type in Rust.

### Primitive types

The following primitive types are supported:

| Type                         | Scheme Symbol | Rust type                                                    |
| ---------------------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 8-bit unsigned integer       | `u8`          | `u8`                                                         |
| 16-bit unsigned integer      | `u16`         | `u16`                                                        |
| 32-bit unsigned integer      | `u32`         | `u32`                                                        |
| 64-bit unsigned integer      | `u64`         | `u64`                                                        |
| 8-bit signed integer         | `i8`          | `i8`                                                         |
| 16-bit signed integer        | `i16`         | `i16`                                                        |
| 32-bit signed integer        | `i32`         | `i32`                                                        |
| 64-bit signed integer        | `i64`         | `i64`                                                        |
| 32-bit floating point number | `f32`         | `f32`                                                        |
| 64-bit floating point number | `f64`         | `f64`                                                        |
| Boolean value                | `bool`        | `bool`                                                       |
| String                       | `string`      | `&str` when used inside a parameter type, `String` otherwise |

In Scheme, the allowed values for each of these types is the same as it would be in Rust, even though Scheme (or Guile specifically) does not enforce this limit. Boolean values must be written as `#t`/`#true` or `#f`/`#false`, other truthy values are not allowed in place of `#t`.

### Aggregate types

The following aggregate types are supported:

| Type   | Scheme                | Rust type                                                            |
| ------ | --------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Tuple  | `(#type1 #type2 ...)` | `(#type1, #type2, ...)`                                              |
| Vector | `(vec #type)`         | `&[#type]` when used inside a parameter type, `Vec<#type>` otherwise |

A tuple is a fixed-length sequence of up to eight elements of arbitrary types. When supplying a value to a variable with tuple type in Scheme, simply list the values for each element in order.

A vector is a list of variable length of entries of a single type. Values to vector type variables in scheme are simply lists which contain only elements of the vectors item type.

Vectors and tuples can be arbitrarily nested.
